Dolmenwood is one of my favorites settings, mostly described in the Wormskin zines. Great for any adventure near a forest.

Old-School DnD had different movement rates based on your armor and treasure, but I'm not using that.

I randomly select a player to have a hook, to help tie them into the adventure. This proves to be useful later.

The players don't need a deep dive into Dolmenwood lore, they need just enough to help them understand their context. The rest can picked up through investigation.

This might have been too much information, even though the book recommends you tell the players. Gotta leave some surprises.

It can be tempting to have a prelude where the party makes its way to the site, but I'm trying to reduce the "time to first meaningful decision" as much as I can.

Trying to set a little bit of the mood and give them a sense of their surroundings.

4:20 into the adventure and we've got our first "what do you want to do?" Get to this point as fast as possible.

I don't worry too much about establishing a lot of PC relationships and backstories. That can be developed in play if the players want it.

Players like picking their models. I don't always run the game with minis, but I find it helps a lot with exploration and positioning.

Old-School DnD works basically the same way as modern editions in terms of player-DM interaction, just with less dice rolling to do things.

Good question on the Magic-User's part. Not rolling Intelligence, just asking for information based on background.

The Dwarf (the descendant of Sir Chyde) took Drunic as his bonus language. Good interaction with the environment.

I'm using the revised opening for Winter's Daughter. The original had a human sacrifice and several Drune to talk to, but it's rather grisly and doesn't fit well with the rest of the adventure.

Originally, the ritual was to summon a monster called Big Chook from Lake Longmere. I improved the existence of the Drunic Runes.

Players using their equipment to solve problems! That's thinking like an old-school player.

Reward players when they come up with reasonable solutions!

I should have been more clear about that originally. Players shouldn't be confused about what their surroundings look like.

I make a d6 roll to check for encounters every time they do something noisy.

Even if there's nothing super interesting to see, if the players search try to give them more details.

Marching order matters, especially when it comes to encounters and traps.

It's important for players to know the consequences of being noisy or taking a long time while in a dungeon, so they can make risk/reward calculations.

To be honest I don't really track dungeon movement as rigorously as I should, I just roll the encounter die when I think that about 10 minutes have passed.

Officially you're supposed to roll the die once every 2 turns, but that results in too few encounters for my taste.

Don't wait for them to search or make "perception checks", just give them all of the significant features of an area as soon as possible.

If anyone had been aligned with Chaos, the objects would have sprung to life and attacked them.

It can be tempting to start the fight anyway just be cause you want some more "challenge" but that would negate the players' choices.

If the players are from 5e, the tendency can be to roll for most things. They way I run searches, they take 10 minutes and usually don't require a roll.

If something is very secret, a general search would reveal a clue to its existence that you could then act on.

Smart that the player is examining things in more detail, looking for clues.

I tell players right away the estimated worth of treasures, so they can track it for me. Saves me trouble.

If players ask questions about world lore and there isn't any good reason why they shouldn't know it, I just tell them.

When there's a bunch of things to describe in a room, I try to save the weirdest/most dramatic for last, both for impact and to make sure I don't forget any mundane stuff.

Forgot a mundane detail anyway!

The more dangerous something is, the more obvious it should be. The players have a clear risk/reward decision to make.

If the players had investigated the source of the ooze, I would have had to improv something quick. I have no idea where it's coming from.

A clever solution I hadn't though of! That should work, if the PC can prove he owns the tomb.

A little nudge just to make sure the player knows what the real obstacle it. If they try to open the lid without proof, they'd be fighting the skeletons.

A hint as to what the slime does by showing its effect. Will the players pick up on it?

Experimentation!

Figuring out how to get heavy (but valuable) objects out of tombs is a classic OSR problem.

Asking questions to figure out the rules of magic items! This stuff is great because it gets the players thinking in-world rather than in terms of game mechanics.

One of the reasons I track encumbrance and items is because it causes these logistics problems for the players to figure out.

Like in a classic point-and-click adventure game, you should pick up everything that seems useful. It probably will be.

I could quibble about how the goo might soak through the sack, but it's not worth the hassle, and I WANT players to have toys.

I negotiate with the player as to how much goo a thing has to have before it floats. This sort of thing is important to get everyone on the same page.

I pay attention to line of sight to encourage the players to take risks. Get close if you want to see...

In the background, I'm rolling to check for encounters.

There is an inscription on the door: "Call to the Companions" which is a clue to opening them, but the PC's didn't get close enough to see it.

Tempt them in with new information...

First saving throw! The throws in old-school DnD were named after common dungeon hazards like Dragon Breath or Paralysis.

Whew! Level 1 OSR characters are quite weak, so a failed save might have killed them (but making a new character is very fast).

Yes I am

I run wizards as if they have a low-level detect magic spell on at all times. They're weak enough as it is.

Good thing I didn't forget that, the dog's name is important and they risked their health to find it.

The nice thing about mapping is that players can anticipate the layout. Normally they would have to map things themselves, but it's faster if I do it.

Figuring out what to carry is part of the game's resource management minigame...

...until they find a way to circumvent it.

The encounter die rolls a 1! Encounter time!

Asking questions about architectural styles is a good move. I had to improv an answer.

Lucky dogs are passing all of their saving throws! Resist the impulse to "challenge" them by making things harder. They bypassed the danger fair and square.

Or steal it and weaponise it...

When players start overthinking simple stuff, don't stop them, unless they are missed some obvious information.

Whoops, should have described those scratch marks when they first game in.

Players making use of the dungeon's "looped" structure to evade danger. One reason why linear dungeons are less interesting.

I accidentally draw the location of a secret door on the map. Hopefully no one notices.

A search doesn't automatically reveal secrets, but I give him a prompt that could reveal the secret door if followed up.

Normally PCs have an x-in-6 chance of opening stuck doors, but I make it automatic if they take 10 minutes and have a reasonable technique.

Checking everyone's positions in case the noise draws a wandering monster.

A 1 is rolled! Encounter time!

Giving the PC a slight warning before they get ambushed.

I don't roll initiative when it's obvious who goes first.

The stat blocks don't have to-hit bonuses listed, but I just use +1 to hit per Hit Die.

Due to a misprint, the statblocks for these guys did not include ascending AC, so I had to figure it out by subtracting the descending AC from 19.

In some ways, I like flat bonuses or penalties to rolls rather than advantage/disadvantage because it's more transparent. You know exactly how your odds have been changed.

When you're the DM, you have to keep the momentum going in combat. Make things bloody and quick.

Gore! Get the players visualizing how gross combat would be.

Morale is a fun rule that other editions can make use of. It makes combat shorter and can add chases, surrenders, and other fun situations.

On the other hand, if the PCs had entered the tomb through the tunnel, they would have got an angry Wormtongue attacking their face.

Rolling for encounters again.

Thieves tools without a thief aren't very helpful.

Players are overthinking things, but they're being much more careful than before, which is good.

Players putting together that the rift is much weirder than expected. Something they probably wouldn't have thought of without the map.

Clever. No one has tried to do that before.

Had to make that up on the spot.

Good plan to finish up everything in this plane before potentially heading to another.

Got to make that distinction so they don't keep thinking it's the same source.

Question was too specific. General magical knowledge wouldn't give you any certain answers.

Break time

Since the players are new to OSR games, I'm fine with giving them more insight into how things could have gone. Just because they didn't  fight any big battles doesn't mean they are safe.

Yes! Using magic items in out-of-the-box ways is exactly the kind of tactics I like to see.

The players figured out what they needed to do without even seeing the inscription on the doors.

Save the weird thing for last!

Pretty proud of this monologue, which has to incorporate a bunch of background lore along with an emotional plea.

The book gives you Sir Chyde's wants and the background info but doesn't tell you what to say.

In general, I like conversations with NPCs to get to the "decision point" quickly.

An important point in OSR adventures. The world has its own internal logic, and everything doesn't always tie into your current mission.

Players love to see the impact of their actions, especially actions from a while back.

Encounter die rolls a 1! Who are they going to meet?

I should have rolled a reaction check here to see what his attitude was, but I completely forgot about it.

Didn't expect the players to tell the knight that they were not from Faerie. Had to think fast about the consequences of this.

What will the Cold Prince think of this news? Something for another session, perhaps.

Had to think quick about this one. The sword was used to defeat the Cold Prince's armies, so I guess that they are all terrified of it now.

The wizard saving his one spell through out the adventure for just the right moment!

There's potentially a whole environment to explore here, but the PCs have effectively bypassed it.

I decided that the vision they saw in the dungeon was a message she sent them, rather than just an automated spell or something similar.

When the PCs earn a motherlode of loot, give them a motherlode of loot.

Uh-oh

I figure fairies measure distances in kingdoms, since geography is so malleable in Faerie

Overall, I'm really happy with the session, apart from me forgetting a few rules here and there.

The players were great and adapted to the OSR playstyle quickly. I think a big part of that is how well designed this adventure is.

There's lots of opportunities for clever play and for players to change the course of events if they want to.
